Hi,

My name is Michael and and thank you for taking some time to read this to get to know me!

If you haven’t already read my resume, I’ve attached it with this email.

There are a lot of things I’ve learned about Software Engineering since I started my career in the Summer of 2015.  I’ve gone from coding simple Jasper my first year out of college to becoming a full stack developer using Java, Spring, React, Angular and AWS.

Coding is absolutely my favorite thing to do.  It is my hobby, my passion, my biggest interest and my career.  In college, I was a dual major.  First degree Industrial Engineering, second degree Computer Science.  When I was three years into my IE degree, I was required to take my first programming course using Visual Basic...after which I was hooked.  I decided to finish IE and then continue on to get a CS degree.  But having done IE first, taught me to look at problems in very different ways than my colleagues...which is something I’ve noticed as I’ve gained more and more experience.  By default, I always look for ways to improve efficiency in everything I do.  I look for ways to put something in layman’s terms.  I look for the simplest and easiest to understand approach.  I think about problems from a user perspective...I ask myself how would I want something to work.  This has translated into me being able to write much better, cleaner and more efficient code than I would have without a background in IE.

As my coding skills have grown, so too has my ability to fulfill the “IE coding best practices”.  Over the past year, I’ve learned BDD using a framework called Cucumber which helps to ensure that every line of code I write adds business value and that business value is in simple terms that non-technical people can understand.  I’ve learned how to write code, both java and javascript, in a more functional paradigm which thus improves things like readability and maintainability.  I’ve learned how to how to containerize a spring boot app using docker and deploy a docker container using docker swarm to AWS.  I’ve learned how to write unit test, integration tests using the spring test framework, acceptance tests using cucumber, stress tests using jmeter and how to inspect for memory leaks using visualvm.  I’ve learned how to use Gradle to write tasks so that other developers can run the tests I worked so hard to create either separately or all together.  I’ve learned how to use jacoco to record code coverage of my tests.  I’ve learned how to use Jasmine, Karma and Jest to test UI components.  I’ve learned how to use npm to again enable other developers to use my code.  I’ve learned how to create a completely stateless cloud security architecture in OAuth2 using Spring and how to leverage existing Spring Security OAuth libraries to create an OAuth2 enabled client.

I could go on and on about the things I have taught myself over the past year...and about the things I am planning to learn.  As I said, coding is my favorite thing to do.  But hopefully you get the idea :)

Now let me talk (brag) about some of my accomplishments and the history of my career!

My first job, I was working as a consultant for Citi in Delaware.  I was part of a team of three people to convert about 30 financial reports used by the Department of Treasure from WebFocus to Jasper.  Of those 30 some reports, I did 23.  Now it is worth mentioning that these reports have been used for over a decade in production.  Of the 23 reports I converted, 5 had pre-existing production level defects.  Meaning the WebFocus versions had production defects that I discovered, confirmed and corrected with my Jasper version...not a bad first year.

After that, my company re-assigned me to a new contract with Citi in Long Island City.  It was at this assignment that I was first introduced to Spring Boot Microservices.  At this team, I was part of the Citi Mobile App development team.  Unfortunately, due to issues with my contracting company at the time, I was only able to stay at this position for 4 months.  But during that time, I worked on developing the backend api for the Citi Debit Card Quick Lock feature on the Citi Mobile App.

Which brings me to my current position, which is a contractor at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Jersey City; during which I learned all the skills (and more) that I mentioned above.  I feel I have accomplished a lot at my current position.  I work on a team that supports applications for global markets and trading; most of which are legacy applications that we’ve slowly been converting to microservices.  My most significant accomplishment I would have to say is discovering a CSRF vulnerability in our microservices architecture...let me explain.  Of the 100+ apps my department supports, we’ve converted about 40 of them from monolithic applications to microservices in addition to creating about 12-14 new applications, also based with microservices.  All of which sit behind a Netflix Zuul Proxy gateway and load balancer...which I was able to (ethically) hack into using a simple html file with inline javascript to perform a CSRF attack...needless to say, it was a problem :)  After presenting my findings I offered a solution...which was securing our Zuul Proxy with OAuth2.  Which lead to a pretty cool example I uploaded to my github...which became the seed for what we actually implemented at BAML, although there have been significant changes (for obvious reason).  The entire process, however, taught me an incredible amount.  I didn’t just learn useful coding tools.  I learned about myself as well.  I learned about my interest for ethical hacking and designing software architecture.  It was definitely experience that will affect my career for the rest of my life.

Again, thanks so much for taking the time to read about me!  If you meet me in person, you learn that I love to talk :D  Hopefully we can meet soon and start coding together!

-Mike
